
26.  "Raining Blood" - Slayer (Reign in Blood).  This album came out when I was three years old (1986) and is heavier than most music nowadays.  The rainstorm at the beginning of the song misguides the listener into arguably the most metal riff ever created by a band besides Black Sabbath.  After that it launches into a breakneck speed riff that blows my mind.  Rumor is that Tom Araya (singer and bassist) didn't even play this on bass on the album recording.  Wouldn't surprise me as it's suspected that he doesn't play a lot of their stuff live.  I had heard of Slayer but was unfamiliar with them until the Diabolus in Musica album.  During this album they toured with Clutch and System of a Down.  I had a cassette sampler of the three bands which had Slayer's "Stain of Mind" on it, which in hindsight, is a nu-metal/rap song similar to Machinehead's "From this Day".  I started working backwards through their discography and had a friend who gave me a few of their albums (Undisputed Attitude, Decade of Aggression, Seasons in the Abyss and Divine Intervention).  Funny enough, I just realized he gave me a few Machinehead albums along with these Slayer cds.  Anyways, Raining Blood might be the greatest album closer of all-time. 

27. "Ritual" - Downset (Downset).  I heard of this band by listening to Rage Against the Machine.  The lead singer for Downset, Rey Oropeza, apparently had issues with some of Zach de la Rocha's lyrics and in the original demo for their song "Anger" he let this be known in his lyrics.  Funny enough, when Zach de la Rocha left Rage Against the Machine there was a rumour that Rey Oropeza was one of the individuals who may replace him.  This song is about the over-sexualization of women and is in a musical style that isn't traditionally known for the most feminist views (rap, metal and nu-metal).  The lyrics are eye-opening and great and the riff in the second verse... might be one of the greatest riffs in rap-rock history.  

28. "Grade 9" - Barenaked Ladies (Gordon).  When I was younger I was babysat at a friend's house.  His mom babysat most of the kids in the area and it wasn't uncommon for there to be a dozen or so kids there.  My friend, Mike, had an older brother Shane who I looked up to.  I believe I was in Grade 4 or 5 (Shane was 4 years older than me) and he played this song on a cassette.  I just remember laughing my ass off at the part where it goes "They called me chicken legs, they called me four-eyes / They called me fatso, they called me buckwheat / They called me Eddie".  This was also the first CD I ever bought.  Sadly, Shane's brother who I was friend's with and his younger brother are now both dead.

29. "Joyride" - Roxette (Joyride).  This was a song I loved as a kid and it doesn't age well.  Listening to it now, it's cheesy and not in a good way.  I remember that in elementary school we had to choose a song to dance to in gym class.  My two friends, Trevor, Ken and I chose this song.  Ken was mad as he wanted Corey Hart's "Sunglasses at Nights".  I'm glad this is a time before video recording was easily done on your phone as a recording of this would cause me mental anguish.  Another student chose to dance to this song, Chris.  Chris was the "different" kid in school and looking back at some of the stuff he went through, I feel terrible.  I do remember him choosing this song to dance to and he did it by himself as no one wanted to be his partner.  During one part of the song he put his ass to the class and started to wiggle it back and forth.  This repeated for a prolonged period of time and I am wondering if his dad taught him this move.

30. "Here's to the Night" Eve 6 (Horrorscope).  When looking up what album this song was off of, I saw a Wikipedia article for it with this: "Here's to the Night" is, along with "Inside Out", one of the band's best-known songs, and is known to be played at high school graduations and senior proms".  This was the song that was chosen for my graduation and even though I don't really like it, it does bring up memories.  A few people were trying to get the song "Here I Go Again" by Whitesnake as our grad song but it was vetoed before a vote was even held.  I'm not sure why it was vetoed.  Maybe school administrators and the more outstanding, proper students thought that the more promiscuous girls of our graduation class would try to reenact the music video featuring Tawny Kitaen and dance on top of cars?  As I write this, my 20th high school reunion is coming up and I have a feeling that some of those aforementioned girls would leave some dents on the cars if they tried it now.   Going back to "Here's to the Night", it's a mediocre song by a mediocre band that was fitting for my graduating class of '01.

31. "40 Oz. to Freedom" Sublime (40 Oz. to Freedom).  Sublime seems to be a band that all teenager gravitate towards at some point.  I was looking at the age when the singer, Bradley Nowell, died as I was curious to roughly know his age when writing the lyrics to this song.  He died at age 28 so he maybe was mid 20s when he wrote this song.  The reason why I bring this up is that I heard a comedian talk about Sublime and how the lyrics to their songs were written by a "grown-ass man".  It is quite right as the lyrics "You look so fine when you lie it just don't show/ That I know which way the wind blows/ 40 oz to freedom is the only chance I have to feel good / even though I feel bad" is quite cringe worthy when you think about it.  Still, Sublime were the band that teenagers loved when they were going through their drinking and/or smoking pot to be rebels phase.  I wonder how many teenagers were tempted to do heroin as Bradley Nowell did it and they thought he was cool?

32. "God Only Knows Why" Kid Rock (Devil Without a Cause).  There are certain songs that you like which you should most certainly.  This is one of the songs for me.  Kid Rock is the epitome of white trash.  A quick litmus test to see how white trash somebody is can be done by calling them "white trash".  If they don't think it's a pejorative term, and embrace the label, they are the highest/lowest/highest form of white trash.  This song has shitty lyrics, auto tune, and a "woe is me" feel to it.  Yet I still can remember slow dancing to this song in high school with a girl I dated for a few years and not hate it.  Maybe teenaged hormones changed how I interpreted this song?

33. "Bandit" Neil Young (Greendale).  I normally am not a huge fan of concept albums as I find it hard to listen through an album in one sitting.  They often self-indulgent and my simple mind often can't figure out what's going on.  Neil Young's album "Greendale" is a concept album, and it is one that fans either love or hate.  I haven't heard anyone say that it's "okay".  I'm a fan of it and it might be my favourite Neil Young album.  This song is just Neil and a downt-uned acoustic guitar.  The one string is tuned low and is used as a drone through out.  It rattles and it is more percussive than melodic.  The song has a somber tone to it but somehow it isn't sad (it's actually in a major key).  

34.  "Chevrolet Way" Tariq (Basement Songs).  This is a song where, just from hearing the title alone, you think it would be part of an advertisement campaign.  I heard of this song and the artist through my sister who bought the album "Basement Songs".  I used to play video games while listening to music.  One summer I played the game "Super Metroid" while this album was playing.  Fast forward ten years later, I would drive back and forth from Lethbridge when I was going to university and would often listen to this album.  It brought me back to that summer where all I did was swim, play video games and work.  It was a relaxing time and the following lines from this song remind me of those summers:  

		"My girl she loves me good / I think she always will too / But in southern Alberta, southern Alberta / His neck went redder as the sky turned blue".

		I saw Tariq live shortly before I went to university in Lethbridge and he omitted the line "His neck went redder as the sky turned blue" when he played this song.  It was a small folk concert and I had a chance to speak with him afterwards.  I should have asked him why this line was omitted.  

35. "Takin' Care of Business"  Bachman–Turner Overdrive (Bachman–Turner Overdrive II).  This song can be described as being mediocre, at best.  The reason it's on my list is that one summer I went with a friend to his uncle's farm in Saskatchewan.  It was the summer between Grade 7 and Grade 8 and he and I were best friends.  He had a few deaths in his family over the summer so we didn't see each other much and right before school started up in the Fall, he invited me to go to his uncle's farm.  Either on the drive there or the drive back we were reading Calvin and Hobbes in his dad's van while the radio played.  It was a classic rock station and the DJ said something along the lines of that he thought this song was actually called "Baking Care of Biscuits".  I'm not normally a fan of humour like this (is it a pun joke...?) but to this day whenever I hear the song I think of that moment.  

36. "Santa Monica" Everclear (Sparkle and Fade).  this song is a song I listen to after my first girlfriend dumped me. Looking back on it, she should’ve dumped me as this was a song associated with her breaking up with me.  Everclear is one of those bands that had a great first record, second was OK and everything afterward was mediocre at best. A few of their later albums had a goof song or two but that’s it. Don’t believe me? Listen to their greatest hits album. this was also one of the first songs I could play on guitar that people would recognize when I played it.  The singer of Everclear, Art Alexakis, was a drug addict before this album was released. It was their first record on a major label and I am wondering if he is still chasing the high of having a hit single.  Reading @bout him on Wikipedia it says that “Alexakis was physically and sexually abused by older kids in his neighborhood. His brother George died of a heroin overdose when Alexakis was 12. That same year, Alexakis's 15-year-old girlfriend committed suicide. Not long after her death, Alexakis attempted suicide by filling his pockets with sand and lead weights and jumping off the Santa Monica Pier”.  Now I feel like a whiny bitch for associating this song with a teenage breakup.

37.  "Bulls on Parade" Rage Against the Machine (Evil Empire).  I remember being extremely excited for this album and seeing the video for "Bulls on Parade" the same weekend Rage were on SNL.  I recorded the SNL and was wondering why they only played one song on it.  I kept fast-forwarding and rewinding the tape trying to find their second song and never could.  Found out later that they had issues with Steve Forbes (the host) and NBC.  When I first saw the video for this song I thought the chorus was "Bonzai for Rage"  and not "Bulls on Parade".  However, when I saw the song title at the end of the video I was able to put 2 and 2 together.  For some reason I did not know when the album was being released and remember by dad and I visiting Future Shop while my sister was fencing.  Every week she had fencing and my dad and I would just go around the city for an hour or two to kill time.  When I was in Future Shop I saw this cd on sale.  I never asked my dad to buy a CD or anything for me because he thought buying music was a waste of money (this was before CD burners were even a thing).  For some reason I got the courage to ask him if he could buy this CD for me and he actually did it.  When I was listening to the CD and Vietnow came on he mocked the song by saying "fuck this, fuck that, fuck fuck fuck" which as a teenaged kid I found hysterical.  Even now I do.  Thanks dad.
 

38. "Firestarter" Prodigy (The Fat of the Land).  I remember liking this song before the album "Fat of the Land" came out so I just Googled it to see that it was released as a single (or an EP, I'm too lazy to double check) a year before the album came out.  I was never a huge fan of dance music as I hate dancing with a passion.  I'm not normally a person who would use the word "vibe" but I would say The Prodigy, and in particular this song, have a vibe or energy that's similar to Rage Against the Machine, who I was a huge fan of at this time.  The song's lyrics are laughable but there's something punk rock to it which makes it aggressive yet catchy.  I didn't listen to much of The Prodigy after this album but in the recent years I've been listening to "No Tourists" which came out in 2018 and I would say it's kind of like "The Fat of the Land"  in terms of intensity.  

39. "You Oughta Know" Alanis Morrisette (Jagged Little Pill).  This album came out in June 1995.  I was twelve years old and got this album for a Christmas present.  Before you mock me for being a teenaged boy for getting this album as a Christmas present, I knew about 4-5 other people who got this album for a Christmas present and they were all guys my age.  Maybe parents were buying this for their adolescent sons so they could embrace their feminine side?   This was the first single from the album and even listening to it now, it still holds up.  I didn't know until years later that Flea and Dave Navarro (who was in the Red Hot Chili Peppers at the time) played on the song.  This song arguably started the female-angst pop genre but there's nothing wrong with a catchy pop song, especially one that has the lyrics "And are you thinking of me when you fuck her?".  Yes, I am Alanis.  I sure am.

40. "Root Down" Beastie Boys (Ill Communication).  I got into this album because of the song "Sabotage" which may be the best music video of all time.  I ended up buying the album because of this song and wasn't too familiar with the Beastie Boys before this album.  I thought they were more of a rock/punk band because of "Sabotage" and "(You Gotta) Fight for Your Right (To Party!)".  I believe I heard "Sure Shot" before getting this album and knew they did have rap songs.  Regardless, "Root Down" is one of those songs where they beat in it is so funky that it gets stuck in your head.  This was the early internet days so I didn't know until years later that the sample is from a song called "Root Down" by Jimmy Smith.  The original song is good but the sample on this song is outstanding.  

41. "Kokomo" The Beach Boys (Cocktail).  This isn't my favourite song by The Beach Boys but its probably the one which is most memorable for me.  I was unsure of what album this song was from and looking it up online saw that it's from the movie [Cocktail](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0094889/?ref_=fn_al_tt_1).  Originally I thought it was a new song that was tacked on to a Best of The Beach Boys album.  Looking at the track listing, I realize that I have listened to the soundtrack for Cocktail numerous times but never have watched the movie.  Not sure if that's a good or bad thing.  Anyways, this song reminds of the summer between Grade 3 and Grade 4 where my family went to Florida on a vacation.  We went to Disney World but my family also got a rental car and drove around Florida.  My dad isn't a huge fan of music but for some reason he brought with him some cassette tapes to listen to while driving.  One of the tapes was the soundtrack for Cocktail and another was Fine Young Cannibals.  "Kokomo" has the lyrics "Off the Florida Keys, there's a place called Kokomo" which now reminds me of my vacation in Florida as a kid.

42. "Kick" Spanish Love Songs (Brave Faces Everyone).  As of this time, the newest song on this list.  I'm generally not a fan of singers who have a voice that has a constant warble to it, but I really enjoy this album.  This song reminds me of the people you know from junior high or high school who are essentially in the same place in life that they were 15-20 years ago.  They aren't necessarily bad people but have made bad choices.

	"I saw you last week / We haven't talked since graduation / You're moving H with a guy to catch up / But it's clear you're using / I didn't have the guts to be a better friend / But what's another ten grand gonna fix in the end?"
	
	After hearing this song I looked up the video for it on YouTube and... I can probably say I wouldn't have listened to the song in its entirety.  It's a douchey too-cool hipster type video.  So listen to the song first before watching the video.
	
43. "Empty Sky" Bruce Springsteen (The Rising). This song or "Atlantic City" are my favourite Springsteen songs.  I'm not a huge Springsteen fan and generally like his hits.  This song (and pretty much the entire "The Rising" album) are written about 9/11 and dealing with it afterwards.  It's not an "America, Fuck Yeah!" album but written in a tasteful manner.  I remember after 9/11 watching a documentary about two French brothers who "were given permission by New York City Fire Department to film a documentary about a probationary firefighter. Their subject was Antonios Benetatos, who was assigned to the Engine 7/Ladder 1/Battalion 1 Firehouse on Duane Street in Lower Manhattan. They intended to make a film about the "probie's" first experiences as a firefighter. On the morning of September 11, the firehouse, under the direction of Battalion Chief Joseph W. Pfeifer, was called out on a reported "odor of gas" at Church and Lispenard streets. Jules Naudet rode with Pfeifer to investigate, while Gédéon stayed behind at the firehouse to film the "probie."  As the Battalion 1 firefighters examined the supposed gas leak, American Airlines Flight 11 flew overhead. Turning his camera to follow the plane, Jules Naudet taped one of only three known recordings of the first plane hitting the North Tower (Tower 1) of the World Trade Center in the 9/11 attacks." (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/9/11_(2002_film))

	   I'm not emotional watching movies but cried like a baby watching this movie.  The only other movie I can remember crying to before this one was "Fried Green Tomatoes" (Yes, that movie that Netflix recommends as a LBGQT movie).
	   
	   Back to the song, though.  In College I was in a Modern English class and in one of the anthology textbooks there were some poems and songs.  This song was in it but only the first stanza:
	    
		"I woke up this morning / I could barely breathe 
		Just an empty impression In the bed where you used to be / 
		I want a kiss from your lips / I want an eye for an eye /
		I woke up this morning to the empty sky"
		
	I'm not sure if I owned the album before or after reading the lyrics, but they have always stuck with me.  
	
44. "Life by the Drop" Stevie Ray Vaughan (The Sky Is Crying).  Just Stevie Ray Vaughan and a 12-string on this song.  I was unsure of what album this song is from as I remember hearing it on a best-of compilation album.  It is from "The Sky is Crying" which was released  in 1991 on his posthumous album, “The Sky is Crying.” (https://oakcliff.advocatemag.com/2015/07/the-story-behind-stevie-ray-vaughans-life-by-the-drop/).  This surprised me as I thought I had seen a video of him playing this song on MTV Unplugged but it ends up I misremembered and the song is "Pride and Joy".  At least I remembered it was played on a 12-string.
		
	 Stevie Ray Vaughan is often lauded for his guitar skills, and rightfully so.  However, in this song his guitar playing is second to his voice.  When looking up what album this song came from, I found out that the song was actually written by someone else, Doyle Bramhall (https://www.texasmonthly.com/list/the-secret-history-of-texas-music/life-by-the-drop-1991/). 

45. "Buddy Holly" Weezer (Blue Album).  I remember loving the video for this song and then loving the song.  I didn't own the album until 7-8 years after it came out but was a fan of Weezer's first albums.  This song has the catchy pop hooks and you have to love Ric Ocasek's production on this album.  "What's with these homies dissin' my girl? / Why do they gotta front? / What did we ever do to these guys / That made  them so violent?" may be the best nerdy lyrics ever written.  You can definitely hear it on this song with the cheesy keyboard sounds.  It's interesting when you dig back into older music and listen to something, like The Cars, and realize how influential they were on music.  Now I know The Cars for something besides "Moving in Stereo" and that classic scene from Fast Times at Ridgemount High.

46. "Pink Moon" Nick Drake (Pink Moon).  I'm not entirely sure where I first heard of this song or album.  I may be misremembering but I believe it may have been in a magazine called Blender (it was a music magazine by the same people who created Maxim magazine).   Looking the song up online, I found out that it was also used in an ad for Volkswagen.  I find it to be a sad song but when you listen to the album "Pink Moon" in its entirety, this is probably the happiest song on the short album (less than 30 minutes).  It is sparse sounding; just Nick Drake on vocals, guitar and some overdubbed piano.  Yet, it is the only song on the album that features anything besides guitar and vocals.  I remember being in my early 20s and walking around town listening to this album at night, often when it was cooler out and it sort of became the soundtrack for this period in my life.  It's depressing when you find out that this is Nick Drake's final album before dying at the age of 26.

47. "Bottle of Smoke" The Pogues (If I Should Fall from Grace with God).  I am not a cocky person about my looks but I know I sure as hell am better looking than Shane MacGowan.  I heard of Rancid before The Pogues but after listening to The Pogues you can tell that they clearly were an influence on Tim Armstrong.  At the best of times I mishear lyrics and this song is no exception; I didn't know the lyrics to it until looking it up online.  It might be trite to say this but this is one of those songs that when you listen to you imagine getting drunk with friends at a pub.  At around 1:50 in the song it changes a bit and when MacGowan yells "Come on you bastards" you can tell he's drunk.  Crock of Gold: A Few Rounds with Shane MacGowan is a recent movie that has a lot of him talking about events in his life.  Thank god for subtitles.

48.  "I Will Survive" Cake (Fashion Nugget).  This song may have arguably started the cover craze of the late 90s.  So you can (possibly) blame them for Limp Bizkit's "Faith" and Fear Factory's "Cars".  I normally love or hate covers and this one is one I ove.  I had originally heard the original of this song by Gloria Gaynor but it was a male singing the song now.  This is kind of like how Tiffany covered "I Think We're Alone Now" which was originally sung by males (Tommy James & the Shondells).  I'm also not a fan of profanity just for the sake of it but when John McCrea changed the lyrics from "I should have changed that stupid lock" to "I should have changed that fucking lock" it fits the song better.  Looking up the lyrics, I found out that Gloria Gaynor didn't like the profanity used in Cake's version [https://archive.is/20080504201527/http://www.stltoday.com/stltoday/entertainment/stories.nsf/music/story/E91C22DD527945C4862573ED007A7C69?OpenDocument].  Fuck her, Cake's version is better.  

